# Routing Basics

## Basic Problem

How does a packet transfer from A to B?

## Approaches

### Flooding

Send the packet to every connected switch in order to make it reach the desitnation

Literally, a broadcast that sends ton of messages in the Internet. This also create looping messages without any time or travel limit.

It is used when we don't know the network topology.

### Source Routing

The packet sender specifies the full route for the packet to the destination. It requires the end client to know the network topology and it does not require forwarding table in the network.

### Forwarding Table

A forwarding table at each hop to help the decide where to send the packet next according to its desitnation. So the transfering totally depends on the network and it needs some ways to populate the forwarding table.

### Spanning Tree

When populating the forwarding table, its goal is to create a spanning tree:
* reach all destinations in the network
* no loop

One needs to choose a metrics to select a suitable tree from many possible.

## Routing

### Multipath

When using a shortest path spanning tree, the shortest path may be too busy to sevrer all traffic. To balance the load, a choice to allow different paths in the network for the traffic, even though they may not be the shortest one.

This may cause packets being transfered not in the correct order, because they take different paths.

### Multicast

If the end host wants to send packets to multiple destinations (like broadcast), in order to reduce the network load, the host can send just one packet and have the network replicate the packets and sends to multiple destinations.
