# TCP Congestion Control A

Three main questions:
* When should you send new data?
* When should you send data retransmissions?
* When should you send acknowledgements?

One early problem is that the TCP might send more packets (bigger window) than what the network could handle. Some packets were dropped and had to be retransmitted again.

To avoid this, TCP uses a congestion window and estimates the capacity of the network. The final window is the minimum of the congestion window and the flow control window.

When there is a congestion, it will be at the congestion avoidance state, which is AIMD. Otherwise, TCP will be at the slow start state.

## Slow Start

Window starts at Maximum Segment Size (MSS, or one packet) and increases by MSS for each acknowledged packet.

Exponentially grow connection window to sense network capacity.

It is slow compared to prior approach.

## State Transitions

Two goals:
* Use slow start to quickly find network capacity
* When close to capacity, use congestion avoidance to very carefully probe

Three signals:
* Increasing acknowledgements: transfer is going well
* Duplicate acknowledgements: something was lost/delayed
* Timeout: something is wrong

Steps:
* first, the TCP starts with slow start
* second, when the window size hits the threshold, it switches to the congestion avoidance mode
* third, when a packet is lost, it switches back to the slow start mode, with window size equals to one and threshold to the half size of the previous window
